---
layout: post
title: Why Full-Stack Now?
date: '2022-08-20T20:29:00.000-07:00'
repo: 
project_id: 
tags: 
    - Journal
---

**Abstract**: O yeah... PWAs exist... and what's this? Full-stack
elements fulfills my needs for personal projects? I am interested :3

I did not expect to set my sights on Full-Stack Development at all. I
thoroughly enjoyed coding back-end via Python and Java, but my previous
attempts to get into web-related stuff put me off it. Before committing
to learning the basics with the [[MOOC.fi's Java
course]{.underline}](https://java-programming.mooc.fi/), I tried out
some web introduction courses via [[The Odin
Project]{.underline}](https://www.theodinproject.com/) and [[Free Code
Camp]{.underline}](https://www.freecodecamp.org/). Unfortunately, both
of these things were difficult to understand. It also did not help that
I was not interested in the Front-end aspects at the time. Even before
starting these web intro courses, a mate introduced me to Python long
ago and the aspect of "lul you can make 2+2 = 4" was so fascinating to
me. As a result, the web intro courses did not fit my learning desires
at the time. After completing the Java course, I attempted to get into
web by using [[Spring Boot (a Java
Framework)]{.underline}](https://spring.io/projects/spring-framework)
for an ill-prepared personal project. Unfortunately, I was very confused
as I had no idea what was happening (despite reading the documentation).

Fast forward to a few weeks ago. I wrote the backend with Python for my
personal project
([[miru]{.underline}](https://github.com/WaToArt/miru)). I had an issue:
"\... so how do I display information to the user?". My initial thought
was to develop STRICTLY for one platform. Next, I narrowed it down to
mobile devices as it would be the most accessible device for myself.
Finally, Android seemed to be the best option as I could test on an
older device OR through a Virtual Machine (VM). HOWEVER, I quickly
realized that the learning curve and period was too drastic for my
liking on the available tools for Python.

Then, two things hit me. First, I randomly had the thought of "o, it
would be nice to have a personal site to display links to my projects on
Github, blog posts, and so on..." a while back. For a brief period, I
lightly went through [[MDN's web
doc]{.underline}](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/) before I shifted
focus elsewhere. Second, it hit me again when I used a few Progressive
Web Apps (PWA) on my phone and desktop: "\... Oh yeah, PWA exists! :3".
This stemmed from a media site and
[[DevDocs.io]{.underline}](https://devdocs.io/offline) being PWAs. The
latter especially reintroduced AND showed me that PWAs made progress to
where it can download and contain offline data. When I tried PWAs on
Android in 2018, it amazed me about its functionality... but I quickly
forgot about it since the performance was sluggish compared to using the
app's native version. This led me to learning about web frameworks for
Python, which was Django.

Now, I tried to follow Django's tutorial docs BUT I needed supplemental
material. I realized that CS50w (Web Development) uses Django for the
course. This was perfect as the course provided a great explanation of
how web development works and the synergy between front-end and
back-end.

To conclude: Did I expect to dive in the world of Full-Stack? NOPEEE,
but aspect seems like the best option for where I am at in my journey.
Let's get it.
