---
layout: post
title: Breathe a New
repo: 
project_id: 
tags:
- Imported
---

Hello there, and welcome to my blog!

I am an aspiring Software Engineer. <!--more--> I am coming from a non-traditional background, so this will be an interesting chapter of my life. There will be more details about why I am pursuing software engineering in a separate post.

What is the purpose of starting this blog on Medium? The primary focus
of the blog will be about things I found interesting while I'm learning.
It could be a dry explanation of an exercise problem... Or it might be a
fun, overdramatic story. The options are vast.

While I have been learning, I wrote some notes and such on the side. It
will be fun to share the stuff I've been learning. This inspiration
stemmed from my past endeavors. I documented my journey with reflection
of what I could improve on, but also what I did well too. This general
"reflection time" was inspired by the Pokemon VGC content creator,
[Aaron "Cybertron"
Zhang](https://www.youtube.com/c/CybertronVGC)! This would
be handy, and having a reason to write is nice to stretch my writing
muscles.

Another question as well: Why not do a Youtube channel instead of
writing? There are other YouTubers who would provide helpful information
on programming. For me, the YouTube format wouldn't fit what I want to
do with this. The commitment needed for the whole video process is huge
as well. I would not be satisfied if I had to pump out subpar videos
that did not either contribute something meaningful or push my artistic
skill sets. If I were to do something for YouTube in the future, it
would not be programming-related. I want YouTube to be my avenue for
different projects to experiment to itch my artistic side. :3

I am ecstatic to share my journey with all of y'all! It will be a tough
experience, but I am looking forward to this current chapter of life. :D
