---
layout: post_programming
title: じゃんけん [Janken] 
repo: https://github.com/SeikaHirori/janken_RockPaperScissors
project_id: 
- janken_001
repo_id:
    - 602692780

tags:
    - Swift
    - SwiftUI
    - iOS Development
    - Hacking with Swift
---
Abstract: Using the specifications from Hacking with Swift, recreate the
classic game: Rock, Paper, Scissors. In additional, add an extra win
condition to score points. On a personally touch, support to switch to
from English to the Japanese version (じゃんけん \[janken\]) was added.
This was to see how multi-language support could be implemented. One
limitation is that the current implementation of multiple languages
might not scale well. Another limitation is due to current personal
limited knowledge of SwiftUI, the SwiftUI toolkit has not been used to
its fullest potential. Addition limitation is that tests were not
written as the focus is learning the tool kit first. Lastly, the look of
the UI could be improved.

-------

Highlights and Experience

-   The prompt from Hacking with Swift (HwS) was fairly straight
    forward!

    -   It's implementing the classic game: Rock, Paper, Scissors (RPS)!

    -   The game is knownじゃんけん (janken) in Japanese!

    -   The prompt also stated another condition to gain points:
        purposely win or lose against the opponent based on the given
        visibly displayed prompt.

    -   Applied a lot of tools from this lesson as they allow deeper
        customization: <https://www.hackingwithswift.com/100/swiftui/23>

-   I wanted to add my own twist: Switching between the Japanese and
    English language! Personally, I am learning Japanese at the moment
    AND I remembered about Japan's じゃんけん, and I wanted to see how I
    could implement switching between じゃんけん and RPS.

    -   For language switching, I used an Array to store the strings. I
        originally planned to use enums, but I wasn't sure how to
        implement it when switching between English and Japanese
        language. A future implementation is discussed in the
        limitations section.

Limitations:

-   Language switching wise

    -   For how I implemented the information being display, you have to
        be ATTENTIVE to make sure that those respective information are
        being updated whenever you toggle between English and Japanese.

-   UI

    -   From my subjective take, the UI's look could be drastically
        improved. I am still new to Swift UI's toolset, so there are
        still endless amount of things I have not learned and used yet!
        I will go beyond Capsule() soon!

    -   Ideally, I would like to switch to a different page when you get
        your final score.

-   Code design

    -   Placement of code is all over the place in my opinion. I think
        some of the logic (i.e. functions/ methods) could be placed in a
        separate file, but I will gain more insight as I gain more
        exposure to SwiftUI code designs.

Future improvements:

-   Improve look of UI

-   Change design of switching between multiple languages by using
    combination of enum and dictionary/HashMap.

    -   Idea suggested by: <https://stackoverflow.com/a/43431251>

    -   If I implement more than two languages, I will need change
        implementation of switching between languages. Currently, it
        switches between languages when a certain Bool variable is
        changed, so this can be changed to an enum, string, or int.
        Additional, the UI toggle could change to a dropdown menu.

\-\-\-\-\--

Conclusion: It was a lovely experience overall for working on this
second challenge project! It accumulated all the SwiftUI materials used
in HwS's Projects 1 to 3. It was a bit tough trying to find clear
information on how SwiftUI's tools worked since Apple's official
documentation (doc) only explains them on an abstract level. When
compared to the doc for Rust, Apple's lacks visual and example codes. As
a result, I had to search through various websites for additional
information. The project has multiple areas that could improved. As I am
following HwS's SwiftUI syllabus, I might be coming back to this project
in the future to make improvements? If that doesn't happen, I do want to
comeback and implement some other features, such as a two-player Person
vs Person (PvP) mode. This task will definitely require in-depth
knowledge, but I do want to see how it is implemented! For now, I will
proceed to the next lessons for HwS's SwiftUI syllabus :D

